Will Marsh
wem5115@psu.edu
Information Science and Technology
Co-Op, Business Process Management
Collins Aerospace – Troy, OH

I’ve always believed internships are the best way to integrate classroom learning with real-world applications. Even being halfway through my internship with Collins Aerospace, I strongly believe that the time I have spent with them has proven to meet my goal of integrating the classroom and real-world applications in a way that supports myself and the company I work for.   

I think one of the biggest things I have taken away from my time is team chemistry.  The interactions between everyone on the team is something I look forward to every day. Creating a space where everyone on the team feels encouraged and excited to share ideas and communicate is something I greatly applaud the team I work with on. Seeing how the team operates and how things get done, I can see how collaboration and development go hand-in-hand. 
During the first couple months at Collins, I had the honor of working on a specific tool, to validate the forms suppliers needed for specific scenarios (name change, address change, etc.). This tool was workshopped for a couple weeks and then sent public for all suppliers to use/see. This is where communication really came into effect. I worked with several other people on the team and went through the sheet with a fine-toothed comb. They helped me interpret everything to make sure it was correct according to what they were looking for. I learned the process of feedback and trial and error when working with a tool that I don’t fully understand. The tool has been published, but we are learning and updating as we go. 

One of the biggest issues I have had, was understanding the scope of the larger projects. There would be certain times where I would get sent something and I wouldn’t know where the data came from, or what it’s showing. This forced me to ask more questions to learn about it, in order to give them what they were looking for in a timely manner. I realized that asking questions is key when it comes to understanding.

Besides other experiences in managing data (clubs, orgs, projects, etc.), I hadn’t learned any professional, hard skills in Microsoft Excel or database management. So coming into this experience, I had to learn a lot more and was forced to learn a lot on my own. Luckily, I enjoyed learning and watching tutorials on different formulas I could use in different situations. I was able to communicate the skills I had learned to the other members of the teams by creating Standard Job Instructions for the projects I worked on. I think they have learned a lot from these tools, as I am able to explain, in detail, the formulas I used and how to alter them. 

Working for Collins Aerospace has opened my eyes to what I look for in a career. I really enjoy working with technology, numbers, and manipulating data in order to get information back. The experiences I have had, along with the relationship I have built with the entire team, has been a true blessing and has opened my eyes to many different careers. 

Regarding other students, I would totally recommend sharing this company with other students for an internship. I have had a ton of great experiences that have made me a better student, person, and professional and I believe other students would be able to do the same. The only thing I would recommend for other students is to use as many resources as you can. The first week I worked, I spent a lot of time in trainings and meetings. I spent even more time exploring the employee’s websites and resources available for people to learn about the company, projects, etc. I even found a document with common acronyms that I still refer to today. So just take some time and explore what the company has to offer you, so you can offer just as much, or more back to them. 

I also would like to shoutout the entire team that I get to work with. They are so fun to be around and brighten my day when I get to talk to them. My bosses Jenny and Julie are both amazing, and everyone else on the team has taught me so much as well. They all talk as if they are equals and can learn stuff from each other, which is super cool to witness and be a part of. 
