Name Will Marsh
PSU ID(abc1234) wem5115
Class (Section) IST 140.2
Practice Problems 1.2
Writing your first program
PRINTING ON SCREEN
For your first program in this course, you are going to explore the difference between two methods that both
print Strings: System.out.print() and System.out.println().
Open up NetBeans and create a project. You will just tinker around with it and won’t turn it in, so feel free to
call it whatever you want.
Play around with the two statements. Try having them say “Hello World”. Change up how they say “Hello
World”. Tinker around with it until you can determine the difference between the two.
1) What do the two methods do that is the same?
The two methods both print out the section in quotations word-for-word.
2) Why would you use one of the methods over the other (not wanting to type two more letters
won’t count)?
One will allow you to continue a program possibly by not starting a new line. The other one
will allow you to start a new line if you are finished with it.
FIND THE ERRORS
Here is a program:
public class TotalWeight {
public static void main(String[] args){
System.out.print("With a weight of " + 16 + " ounces in each loaf, ")
System.out.println("and a total of " + 4 + " loaves, ");
System.out.println("the toatl weight of all " + 4 + " loaves is " + (4 + 16));
}
}
Produces:
With a weight of 16 ounces in each loaf, and a
total of 4 loaves,
the toatl weight of all 4 loaves is 20
Name Will Marsh
PSU ID(abc1234) wem5115
Class (Section) IST 140.2
Use the program to answer the following questions:
3) There is a compile-time error. What is it?
There is a spelling error in the last line. “toatl” should be corrected to “total”. This doesn’t
alter the output in any way except for not making logical sense for a human reading over it.
Once this is fixed, it is grammatically correct. Also, there is a missing punctuation at the end
of the first line. The symbol: (;) should be added to the end.
4) There is a run-time error. What is it?
There is an error with the equation. The addition sign should be changed to a multiplication
sign due to the fact you are multiplying the oz times the number of loaves. The output is still
released but it doesn’t make mathematical sense due to the improper sign.
This corrected version produces this:
With a weight of 16 ounces in each loaf, and a
total of 4 loaves,
the total weight of all 4 loaves is 64
